[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: One
of my favorite people
in the entire world, Steven
Ross, is back with us.
What I love about Steven and
his work is that he has it all,
but makes no claims.
This is a great departure
from our self-promoting world
of spiritual gurus.
He simply is a healer,
teacher, and true mystic
who has gained my deep respect
through the years of knowing
him.
And I'm so happy to
have you back, Steven.
>>STEVEN ROSS:
Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: You know, discernment,
discernment, discernment.
There's just not a lot
of discernment out there.
And that's why I say such nice
things about you at the top
because people need to learn to
discern who is real out there
and who isn't because there
are a lot of charlatans.
There are a lot of
people who pump up
their numbers on social media
with one little trope or two.
And then people like you
quietly just do their work
in the background, freely
helping humanity, healing
on a profound level that most
people can't even comprehend.
So anyway, that's why
I like having you back.
>>ROSS: What an introduction.
Thank you so much.
I believe when we talk
about discernment,
it's aligned with
the word "trust."
And I believe that the majority
of people that I come across
don't trust their self.
They don't trust that what they
believe, or what they feel,
or what they sense is
going to be the truth.
And because of
that, they're going
to rely on anybody
else, everything
outside of themselves, rather
than what they're truly
picking up.
And a lot of times,
I've met people
who have associated or
joined certain groups.
And they may even go further
than the leader of that group,
either with esoteric
abilities or sensitivity.
And immediately, they
become an outcast
because they've
surpassed the teacher.
So for me, I believe the
greatest message I can share
with people, trust yourself.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And the thing is, why would
anyone trust themselves
in a world that's
designed to make
sure you give your power away
to everybody but yourself?
And that's the prevailing
reality of this world.
Whether you're born into a
tribe, a culture, a family,
a system with institutions,
all of the institutions
tell you to give
your power away.
From the educational system
to the medical industry
and so forth,
everything is designed
to tell you to not
trust yourself.
I mean, and a lot
of this conversation
we're going to be
having today has
to do with developing that
inner vertical relationship
with yourself, that divine
aspect that is already
connected to the alt
if you'll listen.
>>ROSS: And I love
being with you,
but if we can,
through this show,
do exactly what you just
said to empower people,
we have a beautiful show.
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
So we'll start by letting people
see an example of how this all
works.
And you and I have been on
a remarkably crazily kind
of similar path since the 1980s.
We've known a lot of
the same obscure people.
We went on the same trek through
Germany and France and England
to meet these incredible
people who are not
known at this time,
if at all, who
were working with vibrational
frequency devices, who
were making discoveries
and really bringing
through technology that
is just now starting
to make its way into common
knowledge today 35 years later,
30, 35 years later.
So with that, that's
the basis of our bond.
And what I learned
about you very early on
was your abilities in healing.
And that wasn't
something that was well
known because you were known
as the guy with the world
research.
We both lived in Sedona.
You were the guy with the
World Research Foundation.
And so for those who don't
know about the World Research
Foundation, let's just lay
a little framework for this
and tell them what it is.
>>ROSS: OK, when I
was in my university,
I was running track and
field in the late '60s,
and I sustained a knee
injury because a gardener had
left the sprinkler head
in our running track.
Because of the injury, I was
sent to the sports physician
for the Los Angeles
Dodgers, the Rams,
the Lakers who said I'd
have to have surgery or I
could never compete again.
For a second opinion, I
was sent to Ducky Drake,
who is the trainer at UCLA.
And I'm going to give away
our ages a little bit here,
but Kareem Jabbar was playing
for John Wooden at UCLA.
So people can figure how--
>>REGINA: This is
ancient history.
>>ROSS: It's ancient
history, exactly.
You have to have surgery.
Well, I was very dejected, went
back to my locker room at Cal
State Northridge.
And there was a popular
mechanics magazine.
I look at the
magazine, and it talked
about a healing technique
from the Soviet Union.
Well, I called
all these experts,
the head surgeon for Ram,
the Lakers, will this work?
No, it will not work.
I decided to try it myself.
I rectified my knee.
And that year, I finished fifth,
the top five for the United
States, in my running defense.
So it showed me that the
so-called experts didn't think
this would work, but it did.
And that impetus led
me to start wondering
what other techniques
exist in this world
that we don't know about
in the health field.
And this began the beginning of
the World Research Foundation
where I started going around
the world investigating
potential cures for cancer,
arthritis, diabetes,
and discovering there
were techniques used
outside of the United
States very successfully
that were not in
use in this country.
And we began storing--
up at this time now, we
have more than 20,000 books
dating to the 1400s in many,
many different specialties,
from color and sound
and acupuncture and cow
dung therapy.
Anything that's ever--
>>REGINA: To electrical therapy.
>>ROSS: All kinds.
Anything that's ever been
used, from ancient times
to the present.
So that has been my
baseline profession.
I've had a horrible
job of having
to travel the world, Regina,
investigating techniques,
healers, clinics, but
somebody had to do it.
Thank goodness it was me.
>>REGINA: Oh, thank you
for making that sacrifice
on behalf of all of us.
>>ROSS: Thank you.
And I do want to comment
because you opened with you
and I had several paths.
We were just talking
before the show
that, within months
of each other,
we were meeting the
same individuals.
You recently came out with a
beautiful book on your life.
I've known you a long time, and
learned many incredible things
about you.
I am bringing this up because,
with a very diverse background,
look how we evolved, the
two of us, to finding
and investigating
in a certain area.
I'm bringing that up because
it should point out to people,
we aren't going to be the
same as somebody else,
but we have choices in the
pathways we're going to take.
And no matter what our
past upbringing was--
and there were similarities.
We've joked about it.
But there was enough
difference in our lifestyle,
but we ended up in basically
the same place on this show
today, which shows that it
doesn't make any difference
where somebody starts.
>>REGINA: It doesn't
matter where they start.
And what was interesting is
our crossing point literally
was the subject
of color therapy.
Both of us became fascinated
with the healing potential
of light and color at the
same time in our lives.
And I remember I was obsessed.
I read every book.
I could find on it.
Every book you
didn't personally own
that I could get my hands
on, I had read on the topic.
I was giving lectures in
my own naive little way
to rotary groups and telling
these elderly men who
were widowers how they could
attract the ladies again
with colors by
wearing pink shirts.
And I was giving all kinds
of useful information
to society at large.
Meanwhile, we were
both on a hunt
for the frequencies behind it.
And that's what
landed us in Europe
with following the same trail
of the same people who are not
well-known to this day, but who
did absolutely remarkable work.
And I think back to Wolfgang
Ludwig in particular,
and what he was bringing
forward 32, 3, 4, 5 years ago.
That language is
just now making it
into the world of
quantum physics.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
And I remember visiting
him with my ex-wife.
And the first time
that I met him,
we were staying at his
home, and my ex-wife
is going through a
menstrual problem
and not talking about it.
She was just doubled
over with pain.
And here was Wolfgang.
He was bouncing around.
He noticed she has a problem.
And he looks at her,
are you in pain?
And he comes back with a
matchbook-sized electromagnetic
frequency device, dials it
up, gives her a little pouch,
puts in on her tummy.
And within the shortest
amount of time, it was gone.
And she didn't have that problem
for many periods after that.
He was just an incredible man.
We're talking the late 1980s.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I mean, I found him
interesting as a person.
Like a lot of really brilliant
scientists and physicists,
he was not present.
His wife was a frau, who
knew how to take care of him,
to pack his lunch,
put him on the train,
and tell him where
to go and what to do.
And he couldn't have functioned
without her because he
was like a little poodle.
His mind was so active and
his hair stuck out like Bozo.
>>ROSS: I want to tell you an
interesting story about him.
I asked him how he got started
in the whole research area,
and where he was funded.
So he told me--
and I don't know if
you know that story--
but he went to a gambling
casino and looked
at the roulette wheel.
And he started noticing that
there was a certain pattern
of the numbers.
And then he started looking
at the actual person who
spun the ball, and
how they did it,
and the speed at which
they turned the wheel.
And he said he calculated
exactly how to do it.
Then he went to bigger
gambling houses and he knew--
>>REGINA: Was he
winning at the table?
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: I didn't know
this part of the story.
He didn't seem like someone
who would go to a casino.
>>ROSS: Well, it wasn't
about the betting.
It was about the speed
of the ball going around
and the wheel being spun.
And he made enough money
to begin his whole career
in science and engineering.
>>REGINA: I love that story.
No, you had never
shared that with me.
I came in at the point
he did his dissertation
on The Memory of Water,
i.e., homeopathics,
which of course, hadn't
really gained any reception
in the modern world.
And he did beautiful
work in that.
I mean, this man's mind
is, well, like yours.
It can go anywhere.
>>ROSS: But he was
also ended up, I think,
maybe with a hairdo like mind.
Too much activity up there.
>>REGINA: When I saw him,
he was halfway there.
He got a little rim of kind of
fringy red hair sticking out.
>>ROSS: By the end, he
has a 'do like I do.
>>REGINA: Well anyway,
regardless of the hairstyle,
he brought an amazing
amount of brilliant insight
into how healing, the
frequencies of color,
the frequencies of sound, and
the frequencies of minerals
all work together.
>>ROSS: And the homeopathic--
>>REGINA: And the homeopathics.
And brought it through
this phase, soft laser.
I don't really
know if anything--
I mean, I just don't know.
It probably is that
sophisticated as really
moving around today,
any of those systems.
So we were both exposed
to this a long time ago
and had this faith in
this kind of thing.
And we had the faith in
our own understanding
that something was driving us
on this path of understanding.
You created the World
Research Foundation.
But in your own
path-- and we're going
to get to the subject
of dreams today
because you've written this
wonderful book, which is you're
fiddling with still
a little bit, right?
>>ROSS: I am, yes.
>>REGINA: We often
need it in dreaming.
And so you're a part of
the journey where you--
we've already talked
about-- you were really
kind of a world class athlete.
And when you wanted something,
you knew how to do it.
But you know how to use energy.
At what point did
your guides let
you know that it was
time for you to begin
employing this toward healing?
Because you heal in
an extraordinary way,
very efficient extraordinary way
that most people can't really
comprehend.
>>ROSS: Thank you for
asking this question.
I did know in
advance, but it leads
me to share that
after I graduated
from running track
and field, I started
playing competitive volleyball.
And they were just starting
into the pro leagues
and giving money.
So I worked my way
up in volleyball to,
what was the highest
ranking at that time, which
was a AAA ranking.
And when you played
volleyball tournaments,
you had to start early
Saturday morning.
It was a double
elimination tournament.
And the last team
standing Sunday night
was going to be the winner of
that volleyball tournament.
So I was playing in a very,
very large tournament.
It went the whole weekend.
Right before that, I had
been doing some healing work
with people.
I was always available.
When I got home
from the tournament,
there were seven calls
on my answering machine--
we didn't have cell
phones back then--
saying somebody was
trying to reach me.
They needed help.
When I heard that, I
felt a little guilty.
I didn't know what
the problem was.
And that night, I had a dream.
And the dream said this--
>>REGINA: Why were they
calling you for help?
>>ROSS: Well, they were
calling because they needed
psychological
counseling, and they
had heard this was a person
I'd never met before,
who heard from somebody else,
who I was able to help them.
I went to bed that
night and I had a dream.
And somebody came to me,
and here's what they said.
What is more important to you,
smelly gym socks or your place
in the universe?
So when you asked me,
where was the transition,
I made a commitment that
my place in the universe
was more important to me.
Then even though it's the
beach and you don't wear socks,
the analogy was very plain
to me that I made a decision.
And even though I had the
highest rating on that weekend
you could get in volleyball,
I walked off the beach never
to play in a tournament again.
>>REGINA: And two-man
volleyball, beach volleyball
is so demanding on the body.
I used to play it.
It is so hard.
>>ROSS: And that
was my commitment.
And from then on, I
have never looked back.
That was the start of much
more of a direct contact
for me, where the dreams--
I had profound dreams.
I think we're going to talk
about that a little later.
>>REGINA: We are.
>>ROSS: But that
really put it to me.
That was the transition.
>>REGINA: We'll talk
about the healing
just a bit before we
go into the dreams.
How did you come about the
technique that you use,
this elegant, simple
reality that you use?
And I have to say this.
We're not going to actually
talk about how you do it.
And the reason is this.
You have to have a
very focused mind,
and you have to have
a non-attachment.
You have to have an incredible
sense of unconditional love
that goes beyond personal love.
All these attributes
have to come
into a single moment
in order for a person
to do this effectively.
And there cannot be doubt.
And we talked about this
doubt, people having themselves
earlier.
So for most people
who would try this,
it actually probably
would not work very well.
And there's no point
in even talking
about that per se, but
the potential in someone
going on their own journey to
find the way in which they can
engage with healing, you're
an astounding example
of the heights at
which it can rise to.
But you have this
incredibly focused mind
that can create reality.
>>ROSS: It can.
And then sometimes
that mind is something
that we have to bypass.
>>REGINA: It is.
>>ROSS: There's that fine line
of being focused and staying
on a single point.
But very early in my life, I
remember I was not a big dater.
I was extremely shy.
People laugh because
I lecture in front
of 2,000, 4,000 people, but
I was very shy growing up.
And I was out on a
date with a young lady
I'd never met before.
And we went back to
her house after lunch.
We were sitting.
She sat in the chair.
I sat in the sofa
maybe 10 feet away.
And she was very nervous
for whatever reason.
I didn't know the reason.
And I looked at her and
I thought, oh my gosh,
I hope I'm not
making her nervous.
I wish I could just hold
her, but not in a sexual way.
Just hold her and relax.
At that moment she
says, you touched me.
Regina, I thought my heart was--
I didn't touch you!
>>REGINA: She's reading
my actions in my mind.
>>ROSS: You touched me.
You put your arms around me.
No, no, I did not, no I didn't.
And she said, no.
And she calmed down immediately.
And I realized that there
was something going on here
because I did it
out of just a love
that I saw somebody
who was in pain.
And from that time,
and then of course,
with more guidance through
my dreamer and the dreams,
I honed down a lot more.
Not too long after
that, maybe a week,
I get a call middle of
the night from a woman
who I met whose brother
had ODed on angel dust.
She was calling
from a phone booth.
She said her brother
was uncontrollable.
I said, where is he?
He's right here with me.
And then I heard a
voice in my head.
Give me words.
And I said, put the
phone next to his ear.
And I spoke.
And immediately,
he was rectified.
So I had experience--
>>REGINA: Were the words
flowing through you?
>>ROSS: Flowing through me.
They didn't come from my mind.
They didn't come from logic.
They came from another area.
I'd say five years after
this experience with,
what's more important
your smelly gym socks,
I was called by a friend
up to Modesto, California.
People at that time
started knowing
that I was talking about
esoteric metaphysical things.
And people just like
to hear me talk.
Boy, that's great.
A lot of times, you
want people to be quiet,
but people give me an
invitation to talk.
So I take it.
So I go up to Modesto.
A good friend of mine said a
friend of hers opened her home.
She had a few people.
There were 30 people there.
We spoke through
the whole evening
about metaphysical things,
healing, electromagnetics.
I kept looking at the
woman whose home it was,
and she looked miffed.
She looked confused
the whole evening.
After everybody left, and
my friend and I helped
a woman clean up
and we were leaving,
I was given the
following words to tell
this woman, the household lady.
I looked at her like you
and I look, and I go,
I wish I was an
Oscar Mayer Wiener.
The woman starts bawling.
>>REGINA: Oh, that's cryptic.
>>ROSS: She bawls.
She was uncontrollably crying.
My friend looks at
me like, Steve, what
have you done to my friend?
Why would you even say that?
I brought her back
into the house.
We calmed her down, and
here's what she said.
She said, all evening,
I listened to you
with your lighthearted
information, your demeanor,
talking about the
spiritual and healing.
And I was wondering could
this guy possibly really
have the goods?
I'm used to the people
saying, you've got to do this,
you've got to do that.
But she said, throughout
the whole night,
she couldn't get that stupid
commercial out of her head.
And when I relate that
commercial to her,
she believed that
I had the goods.
And for me, it
anchored in my faith
because if I had gone
by my mind, which
I did for one second, I'm going
to turn to a complete stranger
and say, I wish I was
an Oscar Mayer Wiener?
>>REGINA: It's like, no, I
think I'll edit it that one.
>>ROSS: That's exactly right.
I would never do it.
I did do it.
And the guidance that has
come in many different areas,
I have a trust because
I asked, as long
as it is always beneficial for
somebody else, I will share.
>>REGINA: And the thing is
you've had the feedback.
I mean, I know you well
enough to know now.
I've been to the World
Research Foundation.
I've been to your home,
and your room of beauty,
and all these places, and
I've seen the evidence
that people have given you.
That what you've done
for them has worked.
And you've had so many
thousands of people
that you've worked with, that
you've been able to help.
and you haven't
even charged for it.
You just do it out of
the love for humanity.
>>ROSS: How can
I charge when I'm
giving these profound
pearls of wisdom
like, I wish I was an
Oscar Mayer Wiener.
>>REGINA: How do
you charge for that?
>>ROSS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: It'd be hard to bill.
[LAUGHTER]
That is true.
So I just say that because
I happen to know you well,
and most people
don't know you well.
And that all of
this is very real.
And we're now working in a world
that most people call magic,
but it's not magic.
It is simply a person
who has brought together
faith in their higher guidance
from themselves and beyond,
together with an
understanding of how
to use the will, the
mind, and love together.
>>ROSS: The imagination,
faith, and will.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>ROSS: And the most important
part, everybody can do it.
When people say, Steve, you're
different, you're special.
No, I chose my place in
the universe, rather than
the smelly gym socks.
>>REGINA: And this is important.
You chose to employ those
aspects of your being
toward this purpose.
And you're right.
This is our birthright,
all of us as human beings.
That either we don't
have faith or we're lazy,
we don't want to really
employ and do the work.
There are always
reasons that stop us,
or we're afraid
because we don't want
to be made a fool of
in front of others
because we don't
want to be wrong.
And that's a really big one.
There are a lot of
really talented people
that actually do healing work,
but are afraid to come forward
because they don't want
to be made a fool of
and they don't want to be wrong.
And they don't want
it to not work, right?
>>ROSS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And that stops
a lot of natural healers.
>>ROSS: Well, a lot of people
feel you have to be 100%.
I know when I first started, I
was very fortunate because some
of the early beginnings, I had
inoperable brain cancer tumors
and breast tumors
and people in comas.
And being an athlete, and
being taught you have to win,
it was a little bit
difficult. But I
kept hearing guidance
going, you are not
the one who is responsible.
And I must tell you a story that
was given to me at that time.
It's about Zeke on his tractor.
Zeke is a farmer.
He's out in this field.
He's on his tractor.
He's going along and he
hears a voice go, "Zeke."
He's looking around.
"Zeke."
Zeke says, who is this?
"Zeke, this is God."
This is God?
"Zeke, I want you to do
healing work with me."
I'm not a healer, I'm a--
"Zeke, healing work."
Zeke gets off his tractor.
He goes into his nearest town.
He goes to the
metaphysical bookstore.
Where do I go?
I heard the voice of God.
You need to go over
to this church.
So he goes over to the
church, tells them this story.
Oh my god, they're
falling all over him.
Oh my, you've heard from God.
So they teach him all
the secrets of healing.
You do this.
You do that.
You lay your hands on.
Zeke's finally ready.
A woman walks into the church.
She's got an arthritic elbow.
Zeke springs into action,
puts his hands on her elbow.
She drops dead in the church.
Zeke looks.
The congregation looks.
Next scene, Zeke's
on his tractor.
"Zeke.
Zeke."
God, I did what you said.
God says, no, Zeke.
You were to lay your hands on.
I do the healing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And that's the thing, to allow
that power to flow through.
And you're not responsible
and you can't take credit.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
And there's some people,
they don't want to be healed.
They may say it.
They don't want to be healed.
They're not supposed
to be healed.
It is part of what they have
come in with to experience
in the schoolroom of life.
So once the pressure
was removed,
it actually was better for me.
>>REGINA: OK, Steven.
So as much as you can explain
it, because it actually
is quite simple, explain
how this kind of healing
mechanically is transferring
into a human being whose
soul is open to being healed.
And like you just said,
that's the real key.
You have to be open
to being healed.
Some people have such a
story in their illness
that they're attached
to that, and that chip
will go down with that story.
>>ROSS: But a lot
of the people, let's
look at the woman who came to me
with an inoperable brain cancer
tumor.
I have had a group come to
me eight people who said,
would you give us a
little mini presentation?
One of them heard me
speak at a big hall.
And I said, sure,
because again, I
was talking to even birds
on a bench at that time.
So six people, no problem.
You come to my office.
And they came with beach chairs.
I had a carpet in there.
And we spoke from 10
o'clock till 4:00.
And after it was over,
two women came up to me.
One woman looks at me and
says, I have a problem.
I said, oh?
I said, what is that?
She said, I have been
examined at UCLA.
I have an inoperable
brain cancer tumor,
and I think you can help me.
So I said, well, why do
you think I could help you?
I looked into your eyes.
I listened to you talk.
I believe that
you could heal me.
So here's the first
part, the belief
that I could do something.
So I said to her, if you could
lay down on the floor here.
And I looked at her friend and
I said, let's heal her together.
I'm not a healer.
I said, do you love your friend?
Yes.
So we sat on each side of her
head, and I asked the woman,
could I touch you?
She said, OK.
So I took my finger, and I
tapped the top of her head
and said, that was it.
She goes back.
She goes, that's it?
I said, yes, that's it.
So she went back to UCLA.
I have the card that she
sent, because sometimes these
are hard to believe for
people, where she went back
and they examined her.
And they could not find any
trace at all of the same tumor
that they had originally found.
So it begins with a
faith that somebody
is going to do something.
The greatest
healers are the ones
who can provide the greatest
environment of expectation
that something is
going to happen.
>>REGINA: Thus, the
faith healing tents.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
And so that is why
things do happen there.
What I do is, every single
person is completely different,
but the one
similarity I have is I
see them in a perfect
condition for one nanosecond.
If they say they have a
problem, I go, whoa, whoa, whoa,
you don't necessarily
need to tell me.
I am going to see you
not how you see yourself,
but I see you in
perfect condition.
I see you running and
jumping if you're confined
with some kind of leg problem.
I see you singing your heart out
if you have a throat condition.
Whatever it happens
to be, I want
to see that person
in total perfection.
And if they're with me,
I say, why don't you
go on a journey with me?
Where are we going, Steve?
We are going to when
you were sparked
into existence, when you were
created in complete perfection.
Will you travel with me?
Some people will say, no.
Well, they're not
hurting enough.
But the people who
will go with me,
we go and we try to supplement
their image of disease
and disharmony with a
picture of perfect balance.
So I gave you the short version.
>>REGINA: And it works.
>>ROSS: And it works.
And so it comes down to this.
Always seems to come down to
this whole notion of belief
in what is possible.
And that's the hardest part.
Like I said in the very
beginning of this conversation,
that's the part that we've been
shaken from since our birth,
is to have faith in that belief,
but belief that we can do it.
>>ROSS: And it's programming.
And I am thankful to you for
this opportunity to share,
because I believe this
period coming up in the world
is for individuals to really
have this profoundly placed
in front of them.
The gifts of the
spirit, and what
is truly possible
for human beings,
and what our mind
has been taught
believes is the only
thing that can happen.
We are so conditioned, Regina,
in our mind talk, our minds
saying that this can't be done.
This is impossible.
How can this possibly happen?
No, I'm not at the right place.
I'm not good enough.
But people have to
understand, our mind
is not who we totally are.
It comes through
our imagination.
These spiritual gifts,
the spiritual contact
does not come through our minds.
Our mind would have shut that
spiritual contact off long ago
because it doesn't believe it.
So it is this period
where we are really
going to see what, as light
beings, we are capable of.
>>REGINA: I'm so
glad to hear that.
The soul group that
I'm associated with
and get information
from once was
saying, and talking
about what we
call the conscious mind,
which of course, is
the least conscious part of us.
The conscious mind.
They said, this
really is only there
to keep you from
bumping into things.
>>ROSS: So true.
>>REGINA: And they're not
really prone towards humor.
And I started laughing because
it was a kind of a joke,
but kind of true.
And I thought, that is true.
It is really to be the
faithful executor and servant
of the spirit and knowledge of
the spirit that comes through
to inform it.
And instead, we let
it be programmed
by kind of every
cheap trick out there
and think that it's dominant.
And even more so
in men than women,
it appears men tend to
rule more by the mind.
Women can live a little
bit more with the mystery
of not having to know.
But this thing of having
to know, having to be right
thwarts belief and faith.
>>ROSS: Right.
In the ancient mystery
schools, imagination
was the most highly
prized gift that we have.
Now, through these
centuries, we have
believed that imagination is
what little kids have and it's
not true.
We have convoluted one of
the greatest aspects we have
as human beings and spirit.
The imaginative
facility is where
all of the great inventions come
from, discoveries come from.
It really doesn't
come from the mind.
And just so your listeners
will get an idea.
How many of them have had
some sort of idea come through
in their imagination?
They see or they
think of something,
and then the mind goes,
no, this wouldn't happen
and it's never going to go.
Well, if it came
from the mind, it
would be a little bit more open
if it gave it to you, then all
of a sudden closing the door.
This is just a simple
little reality.
The imagination and the mind
are completely different.
My journey of more
than 50 years has
been to listen to the
imaginative side a little bit
more than the mind
side, but the mind side
has carried me, exactly
what you're saying,
from totally walking into walls.
so it's important.
I honor.
>>REGINA: It is.
And you know what, I mean, as
much as I know these things
and I work with these
principles a lot,
on a day-to-day basis, when
the simple little messages come
through, I say, I
don't need to do that.
I did it this morning.
This is kind of
superficial, but not.
I was getting ready to leave
and I thought, OK, it's
cold out, put your gloves on.
I thought, but I'm only
walking to the car.
That's really not that far.
I don't need to put gloves on.
And so if you don't
put your gloves on,
you're going to break
some fingernails.
And I thought, well,
why would that happen?
Walk out.
Literally there's
ice on the steps.
Fell down a few stairs.
Broke some fingernails.
They wouldn't have
broken had I not had--
I'm otherwise I'm fine.
I pick myself up, but I
broke some fingernails, which
I otherwise would not have
done had I put the gloves on.
And it was just giving
me a little head's up.
I'm OK, but I have
broken fingernails now.
>>ROSS: And it's a matter
of even trusting that.
Because--
>>REGINA: Simple things.
>>ROSS: --your fingernails
were like my Oscar Mayer Wiener
example.
>>REGINA: It's just a
simple little thing.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And it's like
my mind overrules it.
Nah, I've just got
a few feet to go.
Don't worry about it.
And I always think,
why do you do that?
You know how this works.
And I'll pay attention
to it on issues
that I deem to be of importance,
but not the little things
every day.
Oftentimes, I will ignore them
and think, you ninny muggins.
>>ROSS: Ninny
muggins-- I like it.
>>REGINA: That's from
the movie, "Elf."
Oh, you ninny muggins.
I think I'm a ninny muggins.
Why don't you listen
to it all the time?
And that's on me.
But this is exactly what
we're talking about.
>>ROSS: Well, the more that
your listeners and people
in the world will start
laying aside their mind,
the more that's
going to come through
because the energy that's
being projected onto the earth
right now.
This is a preparatory
year, 2019.
In 2020, you're going
to see a lot of people
doing very interesting
things beyond the norm.
But I want everybody
to understand here
that everybody who is ready,
who is open, has the capability.
And by the way, I
need to retract back
to the healing for
your listeners.
I really am not trying to
solicit letters for healing.
>>REGINA: Right.
No, I know that.
>>ROSS: My message
the last 10, 15 years
is that people need to
be doing it on their own
as much as possible.
But the more that
individuals open up, the more
that they transcend the physical
without being too out there,
the more these abilities are
going to be shining through.
This is the time on this planet.
It's going to happen.
And it doesn't have to be-- you
don't have to join some group.
You don't have to
buy anybody's book.
You just have to be
open, willing, and ready.
>>REGINA: And make the choice.
>>ROSS: And make
your choice, exactly.
>>REGINA: What is it
that's going to be driving
the shift in these energies?
Have you been able
to glean that?
>>ROSS: It is coming from
the Cosmos, the greater
hierarchy of energies.
This planet is, as grand
as we think it is--
and it's grand for
physical materiality--
it is behind a lot of
other dimensions in regards
to what is inside these
physical conveyances, which
are light beings that don't
utilize any of their gifts.
I believe for the people who
have read the series by Baird
Spalding, "The Life and
Teachings of the Masters
of the Far East"--
it's a six volume set.
Start reading volume one
to the middle of volume
two to what people
are capable of.
And then, you'll
get a very good idea
of what can start happening,
as long as people understand
it can happen.
Now, I've been fortunate because
I've had so many experiences.
It's easy for me to talk about
some of these unique things,
whether it's by location
or the clairaudience
or the clairvoyance.
But that is why I am going
to share that with people.
And I'm going to share.
No salesman has to call you.
And you don't have to have
expensive courses or teachers.
Just be open.
>>REGINA: And pay attention when
that voice is speaking to you.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Don't ignore it.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
No matter how subtle it is.
Because it's the subtle.
When we're talking
about dreams, I notice--
and that's why the book title
"A Grand Design of Dreams"
is my latest book that I've
co-written with Jeff Wenzel--
the more you work
with the dreams,
the more the context of
the dreams start changing.
And we hopefully
will touch upon that.
>>REGINA: We're going
to start right now.
>>ROSS: Well, you're the best.
>>REGINA: OK?
Thank you.
>>ROSS: You're the best.
>>REGINA: Thank you for
guiding me there, Steven.
OK.
So now we get into
the dreaming part.
And we may or may not
have time to break it down
into all the phases, but I think
we can touch on a lot of it.
But a lot of the information
about your life, where
you were headed, what
was going to happen,
came to you through dreams.
And you were very
dedicated to studying them,
to chronicling them, and to
be open for the interpretation
of them.
Because that, I think, is
the hardest part for people.
So let's talk about why you
wrote this book and, in terms
of instruction, what you
hope to impart to people
for their own journey.
>>ROSS: OK.
I was a math science
major, had a background
in sports, had no contact
with whether we call it
spirituality,
esoterics, metaphysics.
And I met a Native American
in a city, North Hollywood,
California, who said
all my guidance would
come in my dreams.
And I remember laughing
and thinking, dreams?
My dreams are crazy.
I met him in 1973.
I was 24 years old.
And he said, all your future
guidance will come in dreams.
And I was so excited I went
one week without sleeping.
Because every night,
I go to sleep going,
I'm going to have a dream.
It's going to be real impactful.
And then, I was up all
night and never had a dream.
One week later, being
sufficiently exhausted,
where I was forced into
a dream, I had a dream.
And the dream was impactful
enough that I followed through
on that dream.
Now, I can share it quickly.
It was a very short dream.
I heard a voice say, what
kind of animal is Steve?
And then a book was opened up.
A finger pointed to a
picture of an animal.
But before I tell you
what that animal was,
I recognized the voice
as a former teammate
who played six-man volleyball
with me five years earlier.
And something possessed
me to call him up.
His name was Bob.
I called him up.
I said, Bob, is there anything
bothering you about me?
No.
Bob, are you upset with me?
Steve, what's your problem?
I started to get a little shaky.
I go, Bob is there
anything wrong?
He says, yes, something
has bothered me.
Jeez, my stomach was fluttering.
I said, what?
He said, do you remember
our six-man team?
I said, yes.
Do you remember what you did to
Harold, one of our teammates?
I said, no.
He said, Harold was the seventh
man on the six-man team.
And when he came in
and made a mistake,
you would glare at him.
And now, this is Bob talking.
Bob said to me on the phone,
when Harold and I would go out
after the game,
he would throw up
because he couldn't
win your approval.
And I thought you
were a real hog.
Now, that finger pointed
to a hog in that book.
There's no way that I
knew anything about that.
But I started paying attention.
And after that, I had
four to six dreams
every night on every phase of my
personality, night after night.
But I wouldn't give in.
And by giving in, mean make
excuses or say, no, this
can't possibly be me.
And then, something
else happened.
I would have the dream.
I would have a legal
size pad next to me.
I've got my eyes closed.
I would write the dream down.
And then I would get a
complete interpretation right
after the dream.
>>REGINA: It would be literally
streamed through to you.
>>ROSS: Streamed through to me,
which is why I believe that we
all have that capability, which
is why we've written the book
"A Grand Design of Dreams,"
that the more you work with this
incredible vehicle
that we have--
it's unlimited.
I was given telephone
numbers at night.
And I would call those
numbers the next morning.
I was so shy in
those early years.
It was like, what do
I-- what do I say?
I just have a telephone number.
I'm going to ask for Bill.
How creative of me.
Hi, is Bill there?
Steve, we're waiting for you.
We have something for you.
And you, of all people,
know this library is filled
with scrolls and old books--
>>REGINA: Oh, it's
a magical place.
>>ROSS: --and ancient healing.
They have all come through
guidance and dreams.
Now, am I a lucky guy?
Am I different?
No.
Nike says it right.
I just did it.
>>REGINA: And you do.
>>ROSS: I just followed it.
>>REGINA: You do.
You put effort into your life.
You're not a lazy person.
So this didn't just kind of come
and was dropped at your feet.
If I was you I would
have dropped the ball.
>>ROSS: And the sports
background helped.
>>REGINA: It did--
the discipline.
>>ROSS: Exactly,
the discipline part.
>>REGINA: And the will.
>>ROSS: Right.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
So let's talk about
another part of dreams
that I find fascinating.
And people, often--
they don't even
know they're trying to discern
the difference, the difference
between having a dream and
having an actual experience
in another dimension.
>>ROSS: Right.
I think they're
one and the same,
and they happen all the time.
You can have four dreams
a night, and two of them
are going to be
other dimensions.
You're going to have
guidance dreams.
You know, this whole
aspect of the higher self--
and I was reading something
very interesting the other day.
I can only say I'm reading it.
I can share experiences
when they're experiences.
But until I experience it, I
can't say I know it for a fact.
There is no past,
present, and future.
It's all simultaneously.
The higher self is leading
multiple existences,
multiple lives.
And it's all being fed
into this higher self.
>>REGINA: Well, let
me give an example.
You meet with someone
on the other side,
maybe someone familiar to you.
Maybe you have a conversation
or experience with them.
Of course, they'll call
you the next morning,
and you'll know that
you were actually
hooking up with this person.
And so that's not
a dream, per se.
It's an experience
where you're just
connecting on another
dimension with someone.
And so that's the
differentiating factor
that I'm talking about--
experience versus dream.
Now, you put them kind
of in different places
in the same wheelhouse?
>>ROSS: Absolutely.
I think that we have very little
conception of what this higher
self, really, the magnitude,
the breath of what it really is.
And I've had a lot
of spiritual contact.
I'd like to think I'm balanced
from the standpoint I've
had classical teaching.
Both of us have--
the math, the science,
the physics, the sports.
But this other world
is just as real to me.
Because a lot of
experiences we haven't even
gotten into that
have happened show me
that there is so much more
going on beyond the veil of what
we physically see.
But I have asked a
couple of entities
that I consider
interesting, what
is your conception of, quote,
"God" or "higher soul"?
Even on this other
side, they go,
it's an even brighter light.
I mean, nobody really
comprehends here,
in our linear world, what
is really taking place,
how everything hangs together,
how many planets there are,
how if there really is
reincarnation which, obviously,
I believe very fully--
>>REGINA: And I do.
>>ROSS: --how all of
this has worked out,
how everything exists, how
everything is intricate.
It is totally beyond belief.
And then, there's things
on other planets going on.
It's gigantic.
And when you have
people beyond you going,
it's beyond me, then
I don't even go there.
>>REGINA: I agree.
Yes, I agree with that.
You know, we all
have our prejudices.
And I have a prejudice against
the notion of ascension
where everyone believes,
in the ascension movement,
that you're going to ascend
and become something that's
of a vibrational nature,
and you'll no longer
be incarnating on Earth.
And I think there will come a
time, of course, where people
work their way out of any
given wheel of fortune,
so to speak, and
into another density.
I do think that.
But I think that the notion that
you can follow a course or two
and ascend in just
one incarnation
is not a practical
means of thought.
>>ROSS: I agree.
>>REGINA: Because first of
all, ascending toward what?
And so to me, it's more
of a process of knowing
thyself and refinement.
>>ROSS: Right.
Let's look at some of
the ancient teachings
from the very wise ones.
As above, so below.
As below, so above.
Let's look at the
analogy of a schoolroom.
In a schoolroom-- let's
take elementary school--
grade-- in my day,
it was 1 through 6.
This ascension idea
is the equivalent
of saying something or somebody
walks in and goes, guess what?
You are all at college now.
You are all college students.
You have immediate and
instant enlightenment.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
Perfect example.
>>ROSS: No.
That's not going to happen.
Here's what I personally
believe, myself,
is going to happen.
The opportunity
for great expansion
is going to be more available
than it has been in the past.
Now, why would that be?
Because the veil
between the worlds
is getting thinner, and the
opportunity for individuals
to experience greater
clairvoyance, all of these
are here.
>>REGINA: Greater
connection with higher self.
>>ROSS: But everybody
is not going
to transcend, only the ones
who have deemed, in their soul
journey, in this living, that
they want to experience that.
Because there'll be other
people on this planet who'll go,
nah, no, no.
This can't be.
This is the most important thing
to me in the world, this money.
No, the most important
thing to me is power.
The individuals who will say
the most important thing for me
is love and beauty, they
won't automatically go,
but they are already open
to experience the greater
abilities that their own
inner self possesses.
You and I and everybody
watching this show and everyone
not watching this show
has these abilities.
Once you place yourself in a
way that they can be expressed,
then you learn it's there.
That is why people who lock
themselves into one pathway,
even if it is a
spiritual pathway,
immediately limit
themselves to what
that teacher or the students do.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>ROSS: The secret is to be as
open and make no boundaries.
>>REGINA: I agree with you 100%.
And for me, the
greatest moments in life
are the thrill of discovery.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: And you can't
discover if you're not open
and if you're not in the moment.
It will completely escape you.
It'll whiz right by, and
you never even smell it.
And so putting oneself
in that state of wonder
and what it means to invite
beauty in as your reality--
and it doesn't mean
having pretty curtains
and decorative pillows.
It's a much deeper subject
and one that is so overlooked.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: Go ahead and--
because you mentioned this word,
and people are saying, beauty?
So explain a little
bit about what
you mean about inviting love
and beauty in as a baseline.
>>ROSS: Right.
The ancient definition of
beauty was lying in harmony.
Because, of course, you can ask
two people, is that beautiful?
Yeah.
Some people say yes.
Some people say no.
It has to do with an
individual feeling
that something they're looking
at is harmonious to their soul.
And if it is, they're going to
say, wow, that is beautiful.
Now, you, I, or
some other people
may look at exactly the
same thing and go, ah, no,
that doesn't strike me well.
Maybe we like triangles
instead of circles
or tic-tac-toe squares.
There is something
that resonates.
So when we speak
about beauty, it
is about getting in alignment
with what your own soul
believes is beautiful.
And when you have this
beauty around you,
you can't help but act beauty.
The ancients say if you
don't have beauty within you,
you cannot appreciate
it outward.
And the people who deface
different properties
or destroy, the only reason
they are able to do that is they
don't have this inner
feeling of beauty.
Now, beauty and love, in my
parlance are very, very close.
>>REGINA: Yes, I agree.
>>ROSS: Because it's very
hard to separate that.
And by gosh, there's been so
many presentations on what
people think is love, going
all the way back, even
before Plato and love.
But for me, it has to do with
the more that you build--
let me rephrase that.
The more that you assume
everything is beautiful,
the more the world
becomes beautiful.
When I was at the airport
waiting to come over,
and when I fly back, I
love looking at people.
And I remember my old days
and a little bit more.
As soon as I would see somebody,
my mind sprang into action.
Oh, that person's got a tattoo.
They're bad.
Oh, that person's got long hair.
Oh, this person's fat.
This person's that.
The mind immediately started
looking at one element--
>>REGINA: And judging it.
>>ROSS: And judging it.
And that is the thing.
When you start
opening up-- not you--
but one starts opening up--
because you're already there--
when one starts opening
up and appreciating
each individual for who they
are, how unique they are,
they become beautiful.
And the more
beautiful they become,
the harder it is
for the person who
is looking on beauty to act
any other way but beautiful.
>>REGINA: Which is love.
>>ROSS: And that is love.
>>REGINA: That is love.
>>ROSS: And the universal
love, conversely,
means you are not judging
every single person you look
at as lovely and beautiful.
It takes a little bit of
work at the beginning,
but it's not impossible.
Again, I'm going
to use my phrase.
No salesman needs to call.
You don't need courses.
There's some great
books written.
I've got about 20,000 of them.
But it can be done by an
individual who just listens
to the segment, goes
out, and listens
to their mind the
first time, and they're
going to see exactly
what we're talking about.
They're going to see something.
They're going to
come up with it.
You stop, and you
go, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Why did I just do that?
What was the reason
that I bought into that?
I'm going to start using a
little bit more love, going
to look at things a
little bit more in beauty.
So in that area,
that is my belief.
It doesn't have to be
anything spectacular.
But I would advise an
individual to have--
I have a complete
room of beauty.
It was patterned
after rooms built
during the Renaissance called
studiolos built by Isabella
d'Este in the late 1400s.
You immerse yourself
in total beauty.
Well, not everybody can do that.
I have a big mortgage
from doing that.
But you can have a nice chair.
Have a beautiful picture there.
Have a nice statue.
Spend just a little bit
more, so it has some value.
And that will start
this journey to beauty.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And the thing is what
you said is so important.
You cannot judge another
person's resonance
and their path to beauty.
And I remember my soul group
telling me one time about this
and saying, what
you find beautiful--
we were talking about music--
and what actually
heals and resonates
with you can be quite
the opposite of the sound
you'll hear from, say, for
example, a teenage boy.
His being is growing
in a way that he
needs what I would
consider to be really
harsh and metallic in the day.
Those frequencies
are needed for him
to create what he's
trying to create
of his own strength and his
own direction in his being.
And to him, this is beauty.
And this is in resonance.
And it is leading
toward growth, even
if it's maybe destructive
to my brain patterns, right?
And as you say, when
you're looking at someone--
you were judging someone for
being overweight or having
certain tattoos or so forth--
and I agree with you.
Because if I find myself doing
that, I just stop and say,
this means something
to this person.
>>ROSS: And that is coming
from your higher self,
superseding the mind.
That was our discussion earlier.
Exactly.
Old saying-- best not
judge an individual
till you've walked a moon or two
in that individual's moccasins.
That's exactly where
that saying comes from.
>>REGINA: It's all what
it's about is understanding
and respecting their journey.
And these tattoos
are very beautiful.
And they're a statement.
And they're committed to these
expressions in their life.
And so it's beautiful.
And so I couldn't
agree with you more.
It's just a little
tweak in the head.
And so, meanwhile, we're
having a lot of fun,
and we're running out of
time as a result of that.
And we got to some of
the dreaming parts.
But just one final thought
on dreaming that everyone
can take away from
this before they read
your book down the road here.
>>ROSS: I would say, again, that
while individuals have dreams
that appear to be a certain
way, even after all these years
where I've worked with
dreams, of course,
I have those same
type of dreams.
It is a message.
It is a direct message
from our higher self to us.
And the more one pays
attention, what I noticed,
and what my co-author
and I wrote about,
was rather than just
looking at one dream
and trying to
analyze it, I started
putting them into categories
from over the years.
And I noticed, oh, my gosh,
I've had 20 dreams on happiness,
how to have more joy,
spiritual topics.
And that's what
went into the book.
The book title is "A
Grand Design of Dreams,"
and it is not going to tell the
people how exactly to do it.
It is telling people just
to pay attention to it.
That is my message, just
to stop, look, and listen,
to pay attention
to the guidance,
to listen to that inner voice.
And I don't know how
much time we have.
One minute?
>>REGINA: One minute.
>>ROSS: We have one minute.
I was going to tell
a very quick story.
>>REGINA: Tell it quickly.
>>ROSS: OK.
A man woke up.
He had had a dream.
And the dream said, you've
got to be more spiritual.
So he was a businessman.
He went down to his
local bookstore,
and they said the secret is
in the Himalayas in Tibet.
So he immediately
flies over to Tibet,
and he starts climbing
up the mountains
to meet the yogis in
the high mountains.
He wasn't dressed properly.
He falls in the snow.
He's unconscious.
The yogis are there.
They heat him up.
What are you doing here?
I've come for the
secret of the ages.
Have I come to the right place?
No.
No?
Well, where's the right place?
Where did you come from?
I came from whatever
your city is.
They said, the answer is
your city where you are.
Because the answer's always
with you and not outside.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And finally, LEFL.
Because we always
have to end with LEFL.
Because that's your
life philosophy.
>>ROSS: My life
philosophy is LEFL--
laughter, excitement,
fun, and love.
And when people come
to me for counseling,
I check their LEFLometer.
When was the last
time you laughed?
You don't remember?
That's part of your difficulty.
What's fun?
Work is fun.
No, your work is what's
caused your problem.
And that's why you're seeing me.
LEFL-- laughter,
excitement, fun, love.
And if you've got those full,
you don't have a problem.
>>REGINA: On that,
Steven, once again,
thank you for coming on here.
>>ROSS: Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: I really
appreciate it.
>>ROSS: I love you, Regina.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: I love
you, too, Steven.
I have such respect for you.
Thank you.
>>ROSS: Thank you.
>>REGINA: To check more
deeply into Steven's work,
you can go to
wrf.org, and that's
for World Research Foundation.
And in addition to
Steven's life story
and how he connected with his
highest nature and all of that,
that will all be available
soon on Amazon for you to read,
as well.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]